These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him by Bath-shua the Canaanite. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD. So the LORD put him to death.
Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara — five in all.
The son of Carmi: Achar, who brought trouble upon Israel by violating the ban on devoted things.
The son of Ethan: Azariah.
The sons who were born to Hezron: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb.
Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, a leader of the descendants of Judah.
Nahshon was the father of Salmon, and Salmon was the father of Boaz.
Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse.
Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn; Abinadab was born second, Shimea third,
Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth,
Ozem sixth, and David seventh.
Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the three sons of Zeruiah were Abishai, Joab, and Asahel.
Abigail was the mother of Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.
Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah and by Jerioth. These were the sons of Azubah: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore to him Hur.
Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bezalel.
Later, Hezron slept with the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead. He had married her when he was sixty years old, and she bore to him Segub.
Segub was the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth-jair, along with Kenath and its sixty surrounding villages. All these were descendants of Machir the father of Gilead.
After Hezron died in Caleb-ephrathah, his wife Abijah bore to him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron: Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam.
The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
Abishur’s wife was named Abihail, and she bore to him Ahban and Molid.
The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. Seled died without children.
The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without children.
The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
Sheshan had no sons, but only daughters. He also had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore to him Attai.
Attai was the father of Nathan, Nathan was the father of Zabad,
Zabad was the father of Ephlal, Ephlal was the father of Obed,
Obed was the father of Jehu, Jehu was the father of Azariah,
Azariah was the father of Helez, Helez was the father of Elasah,
Elasah was the father of Sismai, Sismai was the father of Shallum,
Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama.
The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and Mareshah his second son, who was the father of Hebron.
The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.
Shema was the father of Raham the father of Jorkeam, and Rekem was the father of Shammai.
The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
Caleb’s concubine Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.
The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
Caleb’s concubine Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah.
She was also the mother of Shaaph father of Madmannah, and of Sheva father of Machbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Acsah.
These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim,
Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
These were the descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim: Haroeh, half the Manahathites,
and the clans of Kiriath-jearim— the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites.
The descendants of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites,
and the clans of the scribes who lived at Jabez— the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.
