Benjamin was the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
The sons of Bela: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
These were the descendants of Ehud who were the heads of the families living in Geba and were exiled to Manahath:
Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who carried them into exile and who was the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
Shaharaim had sons in the country of Moab after he had divorced his wives Hushim and Baara.
His sons by his wife Hodesh: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of families.
He also had sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal.
The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod with its villages),
and Beriah and Shema (who were the heads of families living in Aijalon and who drove out the inhabitants of Gath).
Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth,
Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah.
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
All these were heads of families, the chiefs according to their genealogies, and they lived in Jerusalem.
Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. His wife’s name was Maacah,
and Abdon was his firstborn son, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
Gedor, Ahio, Zecher,
and Mikloth, who was the father of Shimeah. They too lived alongside their relatives in Jerusalem.
Ner was the father of Kish, Kish was the father of Saul, and Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Esh-baal.
The son of Jonathan: Merib-baal, and Merib-baal was the father of Micah.
The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri, and Zimri was the father of Moza.
Moza was the father of Binea. Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son.
Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
The sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam was his firstborn, Jeush second, and Eliphelet third.
The sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and they had many sons and grandsons— 150 in all. All these were the descendants of Benjamin.
