This is the list of the Israelites— the heads of families, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in every matter concerning the divisions on rotating military duty each month throughout the year. There were 24,000 men in each division:
Jashobeam son of Zabdiel was in charge of the first division, which was assigned the first month. There were 24,000 men in his division.
He was a descendant of Perez and chief of all the army commanders for the first month.
Dodai the Ahohite was in charge of the division for the second month, and Mikloth was the leader. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The third army commander, as chief for the third month, was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest. There were 24,000 men in his division.
This Benaiah was mighty among the Thirty and was over the Thirty, and his son Ammizabad was in charge of his division.
The fourth, for the fourth month, was Joab’s brother Asahel, and his son Zebadiah was commander after him. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The fifth, for the fifth month, was the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, a Benjamite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, from the family of Othniel. There were 24,000 men in his division.
These officers were in charge of the tribes of Israel: Over the Reubenites was Eliezer son of Zichri; over the Simeonites was Shephatiah son of Maacah;
over Levi was Hashabiah son of Kemuel; over Aaron was Zadok;
over Judah was Elihu, one of David’s brothers; over Issachar was Omri son of Michael;
over Zebulun was Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; over Naphtali was Jerimoth son of Azriel;
over the Ephraimites was Hoshea son of Azaziah; over one of the half-tribes of Manasseh was Joel son of Pedaiah;
over the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead was Iddo son of Zechariah; over Benjamin was Jaasiel son of Abner;
and over Dan was Azarel son of Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.
David did not count the men aged twenty or under, because the LORD had said that He would make Israel as numerous as the stars of the sky.
Joab son of Zeruiah began to count the men but did not finish. For because of this census wrath came upon Israel, and the number was not entered in the Book of the Chronicles of King David.
Azmaveth son of Adiel was in charge of the royal storehouses. Jonathan son of Uzziah was in charge of the storehouses in the country, in the cities, in the villages, and in the fortresses.
Ezri son of Chelub was in charge of the workers in the fields who tilled the soil.
Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards. Zabdi the Shiphmite was in charge of the produce of the vineyards for the wine vats.
Baal-hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive and sycamore trees in the foothills. Joash was in charge of the stores of olive oil.
Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the herds grazing in Sharon. Shaphat son of Adlai was in charge of the herds in the valleys.
Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels. Jehdeiah the Meronothite was in charge of the donkeys.
Jaziz the Hagrite was in charge of the flocks. All these officials were in charge of King David’s property.
David’s uncle Jonathan was a counselor; he was a man of insight and a scribe. Jehiel son of Hachmoni attended to the sons of the king.
Ahithophel was the king’s counselor. Hushai the Archite was the king’s friend.
Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada son of Benaiah, then by Abiathar. Joab was the commander of the king’s army.
