Now about the collection for the saints, you are to do as I directed the churches of Galatia:
On the first day of every week, each of you should set aside a portion of his income, saving it up, so that when I come no collections will be needed.
Then, on my arrival, I will send letters with those you recommend to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
And if it is advisable for me to go also, they can travel with me.
After I go through Macedonia, however, I will come to you; for I will be going through Macedonia.
Perhaps I will stay with you awhile, or even spend the winter, so that you can help me on my journey, wherever I go.
For I do not want to see you now only in passing; I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord permits.
But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
because a great door for effective work has opened to me, even though many oppose me.
If Timothy comes, see to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you, for he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I am.
No one, then, should treat him with contempt. Send him on his way in peace so that he can return to me, for I am expecting him along with the brothers.
Now about our brother Apollos: I strongly urged him to go to you with the brothers. He was not at all inclined to go now, but he will go when he has the opportunity.
Be on the alert. Stand firm in the faith. Be men of courage. Be strong.
Do everything in love.
You know that Stephanas and his household were the first converts in Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints. Now I urge you, brothers,
to submit to such as these, and to every fellow worker and laborer.
I am glad that Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus have arrived, because they have supplied what was lacking from you.
For they refreshed my spirit and yours as well. Show your appreciation, therefore, to such men.
The churches in the province of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Prisca greet you warmly in the Lord, and so does the church that meets at their house.
All the brothers here send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
This greeting is in my own hand — Paul.
If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be under a curse. Come, O Lord!
The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.
