Now about the times and seasons, brothers, we do not need to write to you.
For you are fully aware that the Day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
While people are saying, “Peace and security,” destruction will come upon them suddenly, like labor pains on a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.
But you, brothers, are not in the darkness so that this day should overtake you like a thief.
For you are all sons of the light and sons of the day; we do not belong to the night or to the darkness.
So then, let us not sleep as the others do, but let us remain awake and sober.
For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, get drunk at night.
But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and the helmet of our hope of salvation.
For God has not appointed us to suffer wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ.
He died for us so that, whether we are awake or asleep, we may live together with Him.
Therefore encourage and build one another up, just as you are already doing.
But we ask you, brothers, to acknowledge those who work diligently among you, who care for you in the Lord and who admonish you.
In love, hold them in highest regard because of their work. Live in peace with one another.
And we urge you, brothers, to admonish the unruly, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, and be patient with everyone.
Make sure that no one repays evil for evil. Always pursue what is good for one another and for all people.
Rejoice at all times.
Pray without ceasing.
Give thanks in every circumstance, for this is God’s will for you in Christ Jesus.
Do not extinguish the Spirit.
Do not treat prophecies with contempt,
but test all things. Hold fast to what is good.
Abstain from every form of evil.
Now may the God of peace Himself sanctify you completely, and may your entire spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
The One who calls you is faithful, and He will do it.
Brothers, pray for us as well.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I charge you before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
