After this, Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
There he found a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla because Claudius had ordered all the Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to  visit  them,
and he stayed and worked with them because they were tentmakers by trade, just as he was.
Every Sabbath he reasoned in the synagogue, trying to persuade Jews and Greeks alike.
And when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul devoted himself fully to the word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.
But when they opposed and insulted him, he shook out his garments and told them, “Your blood be on your own heads! I am innocent of it. From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”
So Paul left the synagogue and went next door to the house of Titus Justus, a worshiper of God.
Crispus, the synagogue leader, and his whole household believed in the Lord. And many of the Corinthians who heard  the message believed and were baptized.
One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision: “Do not be afraid; keep on speaking; do not be silent.
For I am with you and no one will lay a hand on you, because I have many people in this city.”
So Paul stayed for a year and a half, teaching the word of God among the Corinthians.
While Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews coordinated an attack on Paul and brought him before the judgment seat.
“This man is persuading the people to worship God in ways contrary to the law,” they said.
But just as Paul was about to speak, Gallio told the Jews, “If this matter involved a wrongdoing or vicious crime, O Jews, it would be reasonable for me to hear your  complaint.
But since it is a dispute about words and names and your own law, settle it yourselves. I refuse to be a judge of such things.”
And he drove them away from the judgment seat.
At this, the crowd seized Sosthenes the synagogue leader and beat him in front of the judgment seat. But none of this was of concern to Gallio.
Paul remained in Corinth for quite some time before saying goodbye to the brothers. He had his head shaved in Cenchrea to keep a vow he had  made, and then he sailed for Syria, accompanied by Priscilla and Aquila.
When they reached Ephesus, Paul left Priscilla and Aquila. He himself went into the synagogue there and reasoned with the Jews.
When they asked him to stay for a while longer, he declined.
But as he left, he said, “I will come back to you if God is willing.” And he set sail from Ephesus.
When Paul had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church  at Jerusalem. Then he went down to Antioch.
After Paul had spent some time in Antioch, he traveled from place to place throughout the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
Meanwhile a Jew named Apollos, a native of Alexandria, came to Ephesus. He was an eloquent man, well versed in the Scriptures.
He had been instructed in the way of the Lord and was fervent in spirit. He spoke and taught accurately about Jesus, though he knew only the baptism of John.
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
When Apollos resolved to cross over to Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples there to welcome him. On his arrival, he was a great help to those who by grace had believed.
For he powerfully refuted the Jews in public debate, proving from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.
