Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people: “Keep all the commandments I am giving you today.
And on the day you cross the Jordan into the land that the LORD your God is giving you, set up large stones and coat them with plaster.
Write on them all the words of this law when you have crossed over to enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
And when you have crossed the Jordan, you are to set up these stones on Mount Ebal, as I am commanding you today, and you are to coat them with plaster.
Moreover, you are to build there an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones. You must not use any iron tool on them.
You shall build the altar of the LORD your God with uncut stones and offer upon it burnt offerings to the LORD your God.
There you are to sacrifice your peace offerings, eating them and rejoicing in the presence of the LORD your God.
And you shall write distinctly upon these stones all the words of this law.”
Then Moses and the Levitical priests spoke to all Israel: “Be silent, O Israel, and listen! This day you have become the people of the LORD your God.
You shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD your God and follow His commandments and statutes I am giving you today.”
On that day Moses commanded the people:
“When you have crossed the Jordan, these tribes shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
And these tribes shall stand on Mount Ebal to deliver the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
Then the Levites shall proclaim in a loud voice to every Israelite:
‘Cursed is the man who makes a carved idol or molten image — an abomination to the LORD, the work of the hands of a craftsman — and sets it up in secret.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who dishonors his father or mother.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who moves his neighbor’s boundary stone.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who lets a blind man wander in the road.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who withholds justice from the foreigner, the fatherless, or the widow.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who sleeps with his father’s wife, for he has violated his father’s marriage bed.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who lies with any animal.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who sleeps with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who sleeps with his mother-in-law.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who strikes down his neighbor in secret.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who accepts a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’
‘Cursed is he who does not put the words of this law into practice.’ And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’[’’]
