For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles...
Surely you have heard about the stewardship of God’s grace that was given to me for you,
that is, the mystery made known to me by revelation, as I have already written briefly.
In reading this, then, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ,
which was not made known to men in other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God’s holy apostles and prophets.
This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus.
I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God’s grace, given me through the working of His power.
Though I am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was given me: to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ,
and to illuminate for everyone the stewardship of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God, who created all things.
His purpose was  that now, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms,
according to the eternal purpose that He accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord.
In Him and through faith in Him we may enter  God’s  presence with boldness and confidence.
So I ask you not to be discouraged because of my sufferings for you, which are your glory.
... for this reason I bow my knees before the Father,
from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name.
I ask that out of the riches of His glory He may strengthen you with power through His Spirit in your inner being,
so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Then you, being rooted and grounded in love,
will have power, together with all the saints, to comprehend the length and width and height and depth
of the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
Now to Him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to His power that is at work within us,
to Him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
