Then Job replied to the LORD:
“I know that You can do all things and that no plan of Yours can be thwarted.
You asked, ‘Who is this who conceals My counsel without knowledge?’ Surely I spoke of things I did not understand, things too wonderful for me to know.
You said, ‘Listen now, and I will speak. I will question you, and you shall inform Me.’
My ears had heard of You, but now my eyes have seen You.
Therefore I despise myself, and I repent in dust and ashes.”
After the LORD had spoken these words to Job, He said to Eliphaz the Temanite, “My wrath is kindled against you and your two friends. For you have not spoken about Me accurately, as My servant Job has.
So now, take seven bulls and seven rams, go to My servant Job, and sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. Then My servant Job will pray for you, for I will accept his prayer and not deal with you according to your folly. For you have not spoken accurately about Me, as My servant Job has.”
So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the LORD had told them; and the LORD accepted Job’s prayer.
After Job had prayed for his friends, the LORD restored his prosperity and doubled his former possessions.
All his brothers and sisters and prior acquaintances came and dined with him in his house. They consoled him and comforted him over all the adversity that the LORD had brought upon him. And each one gave him a piece of silver and a gold ring.
So the LORD blessed Job’s latter days more than his first. He owned 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 1,000 yoke of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys.
And he also had seven sons and three daughters.
He named his first daughter Jemimah, his second Keziah, and his third Keren-happuch.
No women as beautiful as Job’s daughters could be found in all the land, and their father granted them an inheritance among their brothers.
After this, Job lived 140 years and saw his children and their children to the fourth generation.
And so Job died, old and full of years.
