Then the LORD called to Moses and spoke to him from the Tent of Meeting, saying,
“Speak to the Israelites and tell them: When any of you brings an offering to the LORD, you may bring as your offering an animal from the herd or the flock.
If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he is to present an unblemished male. He must bring it to the entrance to the Tent of Meeting for its acceptance before the LORD.
He is to lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, so it can be accepted on his behalf to make atonement for him.
And he shall slaughter the young bull before the LORD, and Aaron’s sons the priests are to present the blood and splatter it on all sides of the altar at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
Next, he is to skin the burnt offering and cut it into pieces.
The sons of Aaron the priest shall put a fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire.
Then Aaron’s sons the priests are to arrange the pieces, including the head and the fat, atop the burning wood on the altar.
The entrails and legs must be washed with water, and the priest shall burn all of it on the altar as a burnt offering, a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
If, however, one’s offering is a burnt offering from the flock — from the sheep or goats — he is to present an unblemished male.
He shall slaughter it on the north side of the altar before the LORD, and Aaron’s sons the priests are to splatter its blood against the altar on all sides.
He is to cut the animal into pieces, and the priest shall arrange them, including the head and fat, atop the burning wood that is on the altar.
The entrails and legs must be washed with water, and the priest shall present all of it and burn it on the altar; it is a burnt offering, a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
If, instead, one’s offering to the LORD is a burnt offering of birds, he is to present a turtledove or a young pigeon.
Then the priest shall bring it to the altar, twist off its head, and burn it on the altar; its blood should be drained out on the side of the altar.
And he is to remove the crop with its contents and throw it to the east side of the altar, in the place for ashes.
He shall tear it open by its wings, without dividing  the bird  completely. And the priest is to burn it on the altar atop the burning wood. It is a burnt offering, a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.[’’]
