And calling His twelve disciples to Him, Jesus gave them authority over unclean spirits, so that they could drive them out and heal every disease and sickness.
These are the names of the twelve apostles: first Simon, called Peter, and his brother Andrew; James son of Zebedee, and his brother John;
Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and Matthew the tax collector; James son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus;
Simon the Zealot, and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus.
These twelve Jesus sent out with the following instructions: “Do not go onto the road of the Gentiles or enter any town of the Samaritans.
Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel.
As you go, preach this message: ‘The kingdom of heaven is near.’
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, drive out demons. Freely you have received; freely give.
Do not take along any gold or silver or copper in your belts.
Take no bag for the road, or second tunic, or sandals, or staff; for the worker is worthy of his provisions.
Whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy there and stay at his house until you move on.
As you enter the home, greet its occupants.
If the home is worthy, let your peace rest on it, but if it is not, let your peace return to you.
And if anyone will not welcome you or heed your words, shake the dust off your feet when you leave that home or town.
Truly I tell you, it will be more bearable for Sodom and Gomorrah on the day of judgment than for that town.
Behold, I am sending you out like sheep among wolves; therefore be as shrewd as snakes and as innocent as doves.
But beware of men, for they will hand you over to their councils and flog you in their synagogues.
On My account you will be brought before governors and kings as witnesses to them and to the Gentiles.
But when they hand you over, do not worry about how to respond or what to say. In that hour you will be given what to say.
For it will not be you speaking, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
Brother will betray brother to death, and a father his child; children will rise against their parents and have them put to death.
You will be hated by everyone because of My name, but the one who perseveres to the end will be saved.
When they persecute you in one town, flee to the next. Truly I tell you, you will not reach all the towns of Israel before the Son of Man comes.
A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.
It is enough for a disciple to be like his teacher, and a servant like his master. If the head of the house has been called Beelzebul, how much more the members of his household!
So do not be afraid of them. For there is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, and nothing hidden that will not be made known.
What I tell you in the dark, speak in the daylight; what is whispered in your ear, proclaim from the housetops.
Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Instead, fear the One who can destroy both soul and body in hell.
Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? Yet not one of them will fall to the ground apart from the will of your Father.
And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
So do not be afraid; you are worth more than many sparrows.
Therefore everyone who confesses Me before men, I will also confess him before My Father in heaven.
But whoever denies Me before men, I will also deny him before My Father in heaven.
Do not assume that I have come to bring peace to the earth; I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
For I have come to turn ‘a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
A man’s enemies will be the members of his own household.’
Anyone who loves his father or mother more than Me is not worthy of Me; anyone who loves his son or daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me;
and anyone who does not take up his cross and follow Me is not worthy of Me.
Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for My sake will find it.
He who receives you receives Me, and he who receives Me receives the One who sent Me.
Whoever receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward, and whoever receives a righteous man because he is a righteous man will receive a righteous man’s reward.
And if anyone gives even a cup of cold water to one of these little ones because he is My disciple, truly I tell you, he will never lose his reward.”
