After the plague had ended, the LORD said to Moses and Eleazar son of Aaron the priest,
“Take a census of the whole congregation of Israel by the houses of their fathers — all those twenty years of age or older who can serve in the army of Israel.”
So on the plains of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho, Moses and Eleazar the priest issued the instruction,
“Take a census of the men twenty years of age or older, as the LORD has commanded Moses.” And these were the Israelites who came out of the land of Egypt:
Reuben was the firstborn of Israel. These were the descendants of Reuben: The Hanochite clan from Hanoch, the Palluite clan from Pallu,
the Hezronite clan from Hezron, and the Carmite clan from Carmi.
These were the clans of Reuben, and their registration numbered 43,730.
Now the son of Pallu was Eliab,
and the sons of Eliab were Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. It was Dathan and Abiram, chosen by the congregation, who rebelled against Moses and Aaron with the followers of Korah who rebelled against the LORD.
And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them along with Korah, whose followers died when the fire consumed 250 men. They serve as a warning sign.
However, the line of Korah did not die out.
These were the descendants of Simeon by their clans: The Nemuelite clan from Nemuel, the Jaminite clan from Jamin, the Jachinite clan from Jachin,
the Zerahite clan from Zerah, and the Shaulite clan from Shaul.
These were the clans of Simeon, and there were 22,200 men.
These were the descendants of Gad by their clans: The Zephonite clan from Zephon, the Haggite clan from Haggi, the Shunite clan from Shuni,
the Oznite clan from Ozni, the Erite clan from Eri,
the Arodite clan from Arod, and the Arelite clan from Areli.
These were the clans of Gad, and their registration numbered . . . 40,500.
The sons of Judah were Er and Onan, but they died in the land of Canaan.
These were the descendants of Judah by their clans: The Shelanite clan from Shelah, the Perezite clan from Perez, and the Zerahite clan from Zerah.
And these were the descendants of Perez: the Hezronite clan from Hezron and the Hamulite clan from Hamul.
These were the clans of Judah, and their registration numbered . . . 76,500.
These were the descendants of Issachar by their clans: The Tolaite clan from Tola, the Punite clan from Puvah,
the Jashubite clan from Jashub, and the Shimronite clan from Shimron.
These were the clans of Issachar, and their registration numbered . . . 64,300.
These were the descendants of Zebulun by their clans: The Seredite clan from Sered, the Elonite clan from Elon, and the Jahleelite clan from Jahleel.
These were the clans of Zebulun, and their registration numbered . . . 60,500.
The descendants of Joseph included the clans of Manasseh and Ephraim.
These were the descendants of Manasseh: The Machirite clan from Machir, the father of Gilead, and the Gileadite clan from Gilead.
These were the descendants of Gilead: the Iezerite clan from Iezer, the Helekite clan from Helek,
the Asrielite clan from Asriel, the Shechemite clan from Shechem,
the Shemidaite clan from Shemida, and the Hepherite clan from Hepher.
Now Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons but only daughters. The names of his daughters were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
These were the clans of Manasseh, and their registration numbered . . . 52,700.
These were the descendants of Ephraim by their clans: The Shuthelahite clan from Shuthelah, the Becherite clan from Becher, and the Tahanite clan from Tahan.
And the descendants of Shuthelah were the Eranite clan from Eran.
These were the clans of Ephraim, and their registration numbered . . . 32,500. These clans were the descendants of Joseph.
These were the descendants of Benjamin by their clans: The Belaite clan from Bela, the Ashbelite clan from Ashbel, the Ahiramite clan from Ahiram,
the Shuphamite clan from Shupham, and the Huphamite clan from Hupham.
And the descendants of Bela from Ard and Naaman were the Ardite clan from Ard and the Naamite clan from Naaman.
These were the clans of Benjamin, and their registration numbered . . . 45,600.
These were the descendants of Dan by their clans: The Shuhamite clan from Shuham. These were the clans of Dan.
All of them were Shuhamite clans, and their registration numbered . . . 64,400.
These were the descendants of Asher by their clans: The Imnite clan from Imnah, the Ishvite clan from Ishvi, and the Beriite clan from Beriah.
And these were the descendants of Beriah: the Heberite clan from Heber and the Malchielite clan from Malchiel.
And the name of Asher’s daughter was Serah.
These were the clans of Asher, and their registration numbered . . . 53,400.
These were the descendants of Naphtali by their clans: The Jahzeelite clan from Jahzeel, the Gunite clan from Guni,
the Jezerite clan from Jezer, and the Shillemite clan from Shillem.
These were the clans of Naphtali, and their registration numbered . . . 45,400.
These men of Israel numbered 601,730 in all.
Then the LORD said to Moses,
“The land is to be divided among the tribes as an inheritance, according to the number of names.
Increase the inheritance for a large tribe and decrease it for a small one; each tribe is to receive its inheritance according to the number of those registered.
Indeed, the land must be divided by lot; they shall receive their inheritance according to the names of the tribes of their fathers.
Each inheritance is to be divided by lot among the larger and smaller tribes.”
Now these were the Levites numbered by their clans: The Gershonite clan from Gershon, the Kohathite clan from Kohath, and the Merarite clan from Merari.
These were the families of the Levites: The Libnite clan, the Hebronite clan, the Mahlite clan, the Mushite clan, and the Korahite clan. Now Kohath was the father of Amram,
and Amram’s wife was named Jochebed. She was also a daughter of Levi, born to Levi in Egypt. To Amram she bore Aaron, Moses, and their sister Miriam.
Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar were born to Aaron,
but Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unauthorized fire before the LORD.
The registration of the Levites totaled 23,000, every male a month old or more; they were not numbered among the other Israelites, because no inheritance was given to them among the Israelites.
These were the ones numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest when they counted the Israelites on the plains of Moab by the Jordan, across from Jericho.
Among all these, however, there was not one who had been numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest when they counted the Israelites in the Wilderness of Sinai.
For the LORD had told them that they would surely die in the wilderness. Not one was left except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.
