Then the LORD said to Moses,
“Command the Israelites and say to them: See that you present to Me at its appointed time the food for My food offerings, as a pleasing aroma to Me.
And tell them that this is the food offering you are to present to the LORD as a regular burnt offering each day: two unblemished year-old male lambs.
Offer one lamb in the morning and the other at twilight,
along with a tenth of an ephah of fine flour as a grain offering, mixed with a quarter hin of oil from pressed olives.
This is a regular burnt offering established at Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
The drink offering accompanying each lamb shall be a quarter hin. Pour out the offering of fermented drink to the LORD in the sanctuary area.
And offer the second lamb at twilight, with the same grain offering and drink offering as in the morning. It is a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
On the Sabbath day, present two unblemished year-old male lambs, accompanied by a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil, as well as a drink offering.
This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
At the beginning of every month, you are to present to the LORD a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old, all unblemished,
along with three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering with each bull, two-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering with the ram,
and a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering with each lamb. This is a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine with each bull, a third of a hin with the ram, and a quarter hin with each lamb. This is the monthly burnt offering to be made at each new moon throughout the year.
In addition to the regular burnt offering with its drink offering, one male goat is to be presented to the LORD as a sin offering.
The fourteenth day of the first month is the LORD’s Passover.
On the fifteenth day of this month, there shall be a feast; for seven days unleavened bread is to be eaten.
On the first day there is to be a sacred assembly; you must not do any regular work.
Present to the LORD a food offering, a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old, all unblemished.
The grain offering shall consist of fine flour mixed with oil; offer three-tenths of an ephah with each bull, two-tenths of an ephah with the ram,
and a tenth of an ephah with each of the seven lambs.
Include one male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you.
You are to present these in addition to the regular morning burnt offering.
Offer the same food each day for seven days as a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD. It is to be offered with its drink offering and the regular burnt offering.
On the seventh day you shall hold a sacred assembly; you must not do any regular work.
On the day of firstfruits, when you present an offering of new grain to the LORD during the Feast of Weeks, you are to hold a sacred assembly; you must not do any regular work.
Present a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old as a pleasing aroma to the LORD,
together with their grain offerings of fine flour mixed with oil— three-tenths of an ephah with each bull, two-tenths of an ephah with the ram,
and a tenth of an ephah with each of the seven lambs.
Include one male goat to make atonement for you.
Offer them with their drink offerings in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering. The animals must be unblemished.[’’]
