Therefore if you have any encouragement in Christ, if any comfort from His love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any affection and compassion,
then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being united in spirit and purpose.
Do nothing out of selfish ambition or empty pride, but in humility consider others more important than yourselves.
Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others.
Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus:
Who, existing in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped,
but emptied Himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in human likeness.
And being found in appearance as a man, He humbled Himself and became obedient to death — even death on a cross.
Therefore God exalted Him to the highest place and gave Him the name above all names,
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Therefore, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now even more in my absence, continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling.
For it is God who works in you to will and to act on behalf of His good purpose.
Do everything without complaining or arguing,
so that you may be blameless and pure, children of God without fault in a crooked and perverse generation, in which you shine as lights in the world
as you hold forth the word of life, in order that I may boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labor in vain.
But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you.
So you too should be glad and rejoice with me.
Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered when I learn how you are doing.
I have nobody else like him who will genuinely care for your needs.
For all the others look after their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
But you know Timothy’s proven worth, that as a child with his father he has served with me to advance the gospel.
So I hope to send him as soon as I see what happens with me.
And I trust in the Lord that I myself will come soon.
But I thought it necessary to send back to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, and fellow soldier, who is also your messenger and minister to my needs.
For he has been longing for all of you and is distressed because you heard he was ill.
He was sick indeed, nearly unto death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him but also on me, to spare me sorrow upon sorrow.
Therefore I am all the more eager to send him, so that when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less anxious.
Welcome him in the Lord with great joy, and honor men like him,
because he nearly died for the work of Christ, risking his life to make up for your deficit of service to me.
