The proverbs of Solomon: A wise son brings joy to his father, but a foolish son grief to his mother.
Ill-gotten treasures profit nothing, but righteousness brings deliverance from death.
The LORD does not let the righteous go hungry, but He denies the craving of the wicked.
Idle hands make one poor, but diligent hands bring wealth.
He who gathers in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son.
Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the name of the wicked will rot.
A wise heart will receive commandments, but foolish lips will come to ruin.
He who walks in integrity walks securely, but he who perverts his ways will be found out.
He who winks the eye causes grief, and foolish lips will come to ruin.
The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence.
Hatred stirs up dissension, but love covers all transgressions.
Wisdom is found on the lips of the discerning, but a rod is for the back of him who lacks judgment.
The wise store up knowledge, but the mouth of the fool invites destruction.
The wealth of the rich man is his fortified city, but poverty is the ruin of the poor.
The labor of the righteous leads to life, but the gain of the wicked brings punishment.
Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who ignores reproof goes astray.
The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever spreads slander is a fool.
When words are many, sin is unavoidable, but he who restrains his lips is wise.
The tongue of the righteous is choice silver, but the heart of the wicked has little worth.
The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of judgment.
The blessing of the LORD enriches, and He adds no sorrow to it.
The fool delights in shameful conduct, but a man of understanding has wisdom.
What the wicked man dreads will overtake him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.
When the whirlwind passes, the wicked are no more, but the righteous are secure forever.
Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the slacker to those who send him.
The fear of the LORD prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be cut short.
The hope of the righteous is joy, but the expectations of the wicked will perish.
The way of the LORD is a refuge to the upright, but destruction awaits those who do evil.
The righteous will never be shaken, but the wicked will not inhabit the land.
The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but a perverse tongue will be cut out.
The lips of the righteous know what is fitting, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.
