A man who remains stiff-necked after much reproof will suddenly be shattered beyond recovery.
When the righteous flourish, the people rejoice, but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
A man who loves wisdom brings joy to his father, but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.
By justice a king brings stability to the land, but a man who exacts tribute demolishes it.
A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.
An evil man is caught by his own sin, but a righteous one sings and rejoices.
The righteous consider the cause of the poor, but the wicked have no regard for such concerns.
Mockers inflame a city, but the wise turn away anger.
If a wise man goes to court with a fool, there will be raving and laughing with no resolution.
Men of bloodshed hate a blameless man, but the upright care for his life.
A fool vents all his anger, but a wise man holds it back.
If a ruler listens to lies, all his officials will be wicked.
The poor man and the oppressor have this in common: The LORD gives light to the eyes of both.
A king who judges the poor with fairness— his throne will be established forever.
A rod of correction imparts wisdom, but a child left to himself disgraces his mother.
When the wicked thrive, rebellion increases; but the righteous will see their downfall.
Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will bring delight to your soul.
Where there is no vision, the people cast off restraint; but blessed is he who keeps the Law.
A servant cannot be corrected by words alone; though he understands, he will not respond.
Do you see a man who speaks in haste? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
A servant pampered from his youth will bring grief in the end.
An angry man stirs up dissension, and a hot-tempered man abounds in transgression.
A man’s pride will bring him low, but a humble spirit will obtain honor.
A partner to a thief hates his own soul; he receives the oath but does not testify.
The fear of man is a snare, but whoever trusts in the LORD is set securely on high.
Many seek the ruler’s favor, but a man receives justice from the LORD.
An unjust man is detestable to the righteous, and one whose way is upright is detestable to the wicked.
