The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are as bold as a lion.
A land in rebellion has many rulers, but a man of understanding and knowledge maintains order.
A destitute leader who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain that leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law resist them.
Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the LORD comprehend fully.
Better a poor man who walks with integrity than a rich man whose ways are perverse.
A discerning son keeps the law, but a companion of gluttons disgraces his father.
He who increases his wealth by interest and usury lays it up for one who is kind to the poor.
Whoever turns his ear away from hearing the law, even his prayer is detestable.
He who leads the upright along the path of evil will fall into his own pit, but the blameless will inherit what is good.
A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man with discernment sees through him.
When the righteous triumph, there is great glory, but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
He who conceals his sins will not prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them will find mercy.
Blessed is the man who is always reverent, but he who hardens his heart falls into trouble.
Like a roaring lion or a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a helpless people.
A leader who lacks judgment is also a great oppressor, but he who hates dishonest profit will prolong his days.
A man burdened by bloodguilt will flee into the Pit; let no one support him.
He who walks with integrity will be kept safe, but whoever is perverse in his ways will suddenly fall.
The one who works his land will have plenty of food, but whoever chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.
A faithful man will abound with blessings, but one eager to be rich will not go unpunished.
To show partiality is not good, yet a man will do wrong for a piece of bread.
A stingy man hastens after wealth and does not know that poverty awaits him.
He who rebukes a man will later find more favor than one who flatters with his tongue.
He who robs his father or mother, saying, “It is not wrong,” is a companion to the man who destroys.
A greedy man stirs up strife, but he who trusts in the LORD will prosper.
He who trusts in himself is a fool, but one who walks in wisdom will be safe.
Whoever gives to the poor will not be in need, but he who hides his eyes will receive many curses.
When the wicked come to power, people hide themselves; but when they perish, the righteous flourish.
