Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates correction is stupid.
The good man obtains favor from the LORD, but the LORD condemns a man who devises evil.
A man cannot be established through wickedness, but the righteous cannot be uprooted.
A wife of noble character is her husband’s crown, but she who causes shame is like decay in his bones.
The plans of the righteous are just, but the counsel of the wicked leads to deceit.
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them.
The wicked are overthrown and perish, but the house of the righteous will stand.
A man is praised according to his wisdom, but a twisted mind is despised.
Better to be lightly esteemed yet have a servant, than to be self-important but lack food.
A righteous man regards the life of his animal, but the tender mercies of the wicked are only cruelty.
The one who works his land will have plenty of food, but whoever chases fantasies lacks judgment.
The wicked desire the plunder of evil men, but the root of the righteous flourishes.
An evil man is trapped by his rebellious speech, but a righteous man escapes from trouble.
By fruitful speech a man is filled with good things, and the work of his hands returns to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to counsel.
A fool’s anger is known at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult.
He who speaks the truth declares what is right, but a false witness speaks deceit.
Speaking rashly is like a piercing sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue lasts only a moment.
Deceit is in the hearts of those who devise evil, but the counselors of peace have joy.
No harm befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble.
Lying lips are detestable to the LORD, but those who deal faithfully are His delight.
A shrewd man keeps his knowledge to himself, but a foolish heart proclaims its folly.
The hand of the diligent will rule, but laziness ends in forced labor.
Anxiety weighs down the heart of a man, but a good word cheers it up.
A righteous man is cautious in friendship, but the ways of the wicked lead them astray.
A lazy man does not roast his game, but a diligent man prizes his possession.
There is life in the path of righteousness, but another path leads to death.
