Better a poor man who walks with integrity than a fool whose lips are perverse.
Even zeal is no good without knowledge, and he who hurries his footsteps misses the mark.
A man’s own folly subverts his way, yet his heart rages against the LORD.
Wealth attracts many friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend.
A false witness will not go unpunished, and one who utters lies will not escape.
Many seek the favor of the prince, and everyone is a friend of the gift giver.
All the brothers of a poor man hate him — how much more do his friends avoid him! He may pursue them with pleading, but they are nowhere to be found.
He who acquires wisdom loves himself; one who safeguards understanding will find success.
A false witness will not go unpunished, and one who pours out lies will perish.
Luxury is unseemly for a fool— how much worse for a slave to rule over princes!
A man’s insight gives him patience, and his virtue is to overlook an offense.
A king’s rage is like the roar of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
A foolish son is his father’s ruin, and a quarrelsome wife is like a constant dripping.
Houses and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Laziness brings on deep sleep, and an idle soul will suffer hunger.
He who keeps a commandment preserves his soul, but he who is careless in his ways will die.
Kindness to the poor is a loan to the LORD, and He will repay the lender.
Discipline your son, for in that there is hope; do not be party to his death.
A man of great anger must pay the penalty; if you rescue him, you will have to do so again.
Listen to counsel and accept discipline, that you may be wise the rest of your days.
Many plans are in a man’s heart, but the purpose of the LORD will prevail.
The desire of a man is loving devotion; better to be poor than a liar.
The fear of the LORD leads to life, that one may rest content, without visitation from harm.
The slacker buries his hand in the dish; he will not even bring it back to his mouth.
Strike a mocker, and the simple will beware; rebuke the discerning man, and he will gain knowledge.
He who assaults his father or evicts his mother is a son who brings shame and disgrace.
If you cease to hear instruction, my son, you will stray from the words of knowledge.
A corrupt witness mocks justice, and a wicked mouth swallows iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for mockers, and beatings for the backs of fools.
