Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; His loving devotion endures forever.
Let Israel say, “His loving devotion endures forever.”
Let the house of Aaron say, “His loving devotion endures forever.”
Let those who fear the LORD say, “His loving devotion endures forever.”
In my distress I called to the LORD, and He answered and set me free.
The LORD is on my side; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me?
The LORD is on my side; He is my helper. Therefore I will look in triumph on those who hate me.
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man.
It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes.
All the nations surrounded me, but in the name of the LORD I cut them off.
They surrounded me on every side, but in the name of the LORD I cut them off.
They swarmed around me like bees, but they were extinguished like burning thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them off.
I was pushed so hard I was falling, but the LORD helped me.
The LORD is my strength and my song, and He has become my salvation.
Shouts of joy and salvation resound in the tents of the righteous: “The right hand of the LORD performs with valor!
The right hand of the LORD is exalted! The right hand of the LORD performs with valor!”
I will not die, but I will live and proclaim what the LORD has done.
The LORD disciplined me severely, but He has not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter and give thanks to the LORD.
This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
I will give You thanks, for You have answered me, and You have become my salvation.
The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
This is from the LORD, and it is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day that the LORD has made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
O LORD, save us, we pray. We beseech You, O LORD, cause us to prosper!
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD. From the house of the LORD we bless you.
The LORD is God; He has made His light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar.
You are my God, and I will give You thanks. You are my God, and I will exalt You.
Give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; His loving devotion endures forever.
